## Methods and Constructors

A class is more than just an associative data structure; it can contain code. In fact, in Java, all code must exist inside a class. Modify the `Person` class from yesterday to create getters and setters. Then create a constructor.

It may seem silly to create getters and setters. Why not access and set the fields directly like we did yesterday? They can be useful when you want to enforce constraints. For example, don't set the name unless it has a space.

Now let's look at some built-in methods in the `String` class. Open the Groovy console:

* `String s = “Hello, world!”;`
* `s.charAt(0);`
* `s.contains("Hello");`
* `s.equals("Hello, world!");`
* `s.indexOf("world");`
* `s.split(" ");`
* `s.startsWith("Hello");`
* `s.substring(0, 5);`
* `s.toUpperCase();`

Look at all the methods available in [the JavaDoc](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/String.html).

Let's modify the `Person` class to add constraints.

* Add constraint in `setAge` so it only sets the age if it is a positive number
* Add constraint in `setName` so it only sets the name if there is a space in it
* Refector the conditional check into `isValidName` (this is an example of breaking code out into a separate method)

## Static Methods and Fields

If a method or field is `static`, it means that it is stored "globally" in the class rather than in each object. You should only make a method static if it is "standalone". For example, if we want to use the `isValidName` method we wrote before, we have to do two steps in the Groovy console:

* `Person p = new Person();`
* `p.isValidName("Alice Smith");`

If you think about it, this is a bit silly. Why should we have to create a new `Person` object every time we want to use that method? Let's change the code to make it `static`. Now restart the Groovy console. Now we can just do this:

* `Person.isValidName("Alice Smith");`

Much better! The standard library has many static methods and fields. The [System](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/System.html) class has a static field called `out`, which represents your computer's standard out, a facility for printing text to the console. That's why printing text is done this way:

* `System.out.println("Hello, world!");`

You'll find a lot of static methods in the [Math](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/Math.html) class. That makes sense, because mathematical operations are "pure" functions that take inputs and return an output. They should almost always be standalone methods, rather than tied to a particular object.
