## Intro to Java

Start up Eclipse and create a project called `HelloWorld`. This will serve as a scratchpad throughout the course when we need to make one-off files to demonstrate language features. Let's try using a scrapbook page to experiment with the language. Go to `File -> New -> Other...` and search for "Scrapbook" in the resulting dialog. Select it and click `Next`. In this last screen, select the `HelloWorld` folder and write `Scrapbook` as the filename. After clicking `Finish`, you should now see `Scrapbook.jpage` inside your `HelloWorld` folder.

This will allow us to write and run code without a full project structure. First, let's make sure it works. Open your scrapbook and write the following:

`System.out.println("Hello, world!");`

Then select it and press `Contrl+U` (or `Command+U` on Mac) to execute it. If all goes well, you should see `Hello, world!` appear in the console. If there is an error, it will appear in the Scrapbook above the line of code. For example, make the `s` lowercase and then select and execute the line. You will see `system cannot be resolved` appear above your line. Delete the error message and fix the code.

Now try some more examples. Let's make a new line with a variable, and then a line to print it out:

```
int score = 0;
System.out.println(score);
```

Select and execute both lines, and you should see a `0` appear in the console. Now let's try incrementing the variable:

```
int score = 0;
score = score + 1;
System.out.println(score);
```

Select and execute the lines, and you should see a `1` appear in the console. Try more examples:

```
double health = 100;
health = health * 0.75;
System.out.println(health);
```

```
boolean didWin = false;
didWin = !didWin;
System.out.println(didWin);
```

```
int score = 5;
boolean didWin = false;
didWin = score > 0;
System.out.println(didWin);
```

Sometimes we want to store multiple things together. A variable that holds multiple pieces of data is called a data structure. We'll start with two simple ones: An array, which holds data in a list (sequential), and a class, which holds data as key-value pairs (associative). In the scrapbook, write the following blocks of code and use the same process to select and execute them:

```
double[] position = new double[2];
position[0] = 1.0;
position[1] = 1.5;
System.out.println(position[0] + ", " + position[1]);
```

```
class Position {double x; double y;}
Position p = new Position();
p.x = 1.0;
p.y = 1.5;
System.out.println(p.x + ", " + p.y);
```

Those were two different ways of bundling values together. The first stores the values sequentially, so they are accessed by a number, and the second stores the values by name, so they are accessed by a name.

In the `class` example, `Position` is the name of the class, and `p` is the name of the object created from that class. The difference between a class and an object is much like a blueprint vs a house. You can have many houses built from the same basic blueprint.

There are many built-in classes, like the `String` class for holding text:

```
String s = “Hello, world!”;
System.out.println(s);
```

Arrays and classes have different advantages. Arrays are great for storing lists of things, while classes are great for storing things with a finite number of known fields.

* Array examples
  * To-do list
  * Web browser history
* Class examples
  * A form (in a doctor's office)
  * A tweet

Now let's try to write another class in our scrapbook.

```java
class Person {
    String name;
    int age;
}

Person p = new Person();
p.name = "Alice";
p.age = 30;

System.out.println(p.name + " is " + p.age + " years old");
```

Select all the above lines and execute it. It should say `Alice is 30 years old` in the console.

## Intro to Git

We track changes with a VCS for many reasons. Firstly, because it makes collaboration easier. Secondly, because it allows us to revert mistakes. Thirdly, because it acts as an offsite backup for our code.

VCSes have been around for decades. The first popular open source VCS as called CVS (1990). It suffered from corruption issues in some cases. It was eventually replaced by SVN (2000), which followed the same centralized model but without the corruption problems. Then came Git (2005), which introduced distributed versioning, allowing people to commit incrementally and push only when they are ready (or when they have an available internet connection).

Create a repo in the HelloWorld project. Commit the files and push to a Github repository.
