## Methods and Constructors

A class is more than just an associative data structure; it can contain code. In fact, in Java, all code must exist inside a class. Let's make a Java file by right-clicking on the `src` folder and choosing `New -> Class`. Fill in "Main" as the name and click `Finish`. You should now see `Main.java` in your project. In it, let's write our first method, the main method:

```java
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
      System.out.println("Hello, world!");
    }
}
```

You can run that in Eclipse by right-clicking the file and choosing `Run As -> Java Application`.

Now let's create a `Person` class in a separate file. Right click `src` again and create a new class with the name of `Person`. Give it the following:

```java
public class Person {
    String name;
    int age;
    boolean isAlive;
}
```

Then go back to `Main.java` and try to use it in the main method:

```java
public class Main {
    public static void main(String [] args) {
        Person p = new Person();
        p.name = "Alice";
        p.age = 30;
        System.out.println(p.name + " is " + p.age + " years old");
    }
}
```

Now let's look at some built-in methods in the `String` class. In the main method, try the following:

```java
String s = “Hello, world!”;
System.out.println(s.charAt(0));
System.out.println(s.contains("Hello"));
System.out.println(s.equals("Hello, world!"));
System.out.println(s.indexOf("world"));
System.out.println(s.split(" "));
System.out.println(s.startsWith("Hello"));
System.out.println(s.substring(0, 5));
System.out.println(s.toUpperCase());
```

Look at all the methods available in [the JavaDoc](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/String.html).

Let's modify the `Person` class to add constraints.

* Add constraint in `setAge` so it only sets the age if it is a positive number
* Add constraint in `setName` so it only sets the name if there is a space in it
* Refector the conditional check into `isValidName` (this is an example of breaking code out into a separate method)

## Static Methods and Fields

If a method or field is `static`, it means that it is stored "globally" in the class rather than in each object. You should only make a method static if it is "standalone". For example, if we want to use the `isValidName` method we wrote before, we have to do two steps:

* `Person p = new Person();`
* `p.isValidName("Alice Smith");`

If you think about it, this is a bit silly. Why should we have to create a new `Person` object every time we want to use that method? Let's change the code to make it `static`. Now we can just do this:

* `Person.isValidName("Alice Smith");`

Much better! The standard library has many static methods and fields. The [System](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/System.html) class has a static field called `out`, which represents your computer's standard out, a facility for printing text to the console. That's why printing text is done this way:

* `System.out.println("Hello, world!");`

You'll find a lot of static methods in the [Math](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/Math.html) class. That makes sense, because mathematical operations are "pure" functions that take inputs and return an output. They should almost always be standalone methods, rather than tied to a particular object.
