## Loops

It will be very common to have a situation where you need to run a block of code multiple times. The two most common situations are: (1) when you want to run code on each item in a collection (such as an array), and (2) when you want to run code while a certain condition is true.

In the `HelloWorld` project, create a simple array with three names:

```java
String[] names = new String[3];
names[0] = "Alice";
names[1] = "Bob";
names[2] = "Charlie";
```

We'll start with the first situation. If we want to print each name out on a separate line, we'll need to loop over the collection. We can do this with a `for` loop:

```java
...

for (String name : names) {
    System.out.println(name);
}
```

You can read the syntax as "for each name in names". In other words, `String name` is a temporary variable the loop is creating that represents the particular item in `names` that you are currently at.

Now let's try the second situation. If we wanted to, for example, print out "Hello" exactly five times, this would require looping based on a *condition*. We can do this with a `while` loop:

```java
...

int i = 0;
while (i < 5) {
    System.out.println("Hello");
    i++;
}
```

## Boxed vs Unboxed values

We've learn about simple scalar values like `int`, `double`, and `boolean`. You may have wondered why they don't start with a capital letter like `String` or `Scanner`. This is because they are primitive types that are baked more deeply into the language; they are not classes. There are, however, classes for them as well: `Integer`, `Double`, and `Boolean`.

These are known as the "boxed" versions because they literally box the value up into a class. You could theoretically write `Integer score = 1;`, but this isn't common, because all you're doing is reducing performance over using the unboxed version. One purpose of these classes is to provide special conversion methods. Try the following in the `HelloWorld` project:

* `int i = Integer.valueOf("123");`
* `double d = Double.valueOf("1.5");`
* `boolean b = Boolean.valueOf("true");`

## Dynamic Data Structures

We've been over two fundamental data structures in Java, a sequential one known as an array, and an associative one known as a class. Both of them, however one downside: They cannot be resized at runtime. An array must know how many slots it contains in advance, and a class must know exactly what its fields are in advance (the reflection API notwithstanding).

This is where dynamic data structures come in. The primary dynamic sequential data structure is called an `ArrayList`, while the primary dynamic associative data structure is called a `HashMap`. With these additions, we can think of our data structure choices like this:

| | Sequential | Associative |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Static  | Array | Class |
| Dynamic  | ArrayList | HashMap |

Try creating them in the `HelloWorld` project:

* `ArrayList names = new ArrayList();`
* `names.add("Alice");`
* `names.add("Bob");`
* `names.add("Charlie");`
* `names.get(0);`
* `names.remove(0);`
* `HashMap person = new HashMap();`
* `person.put("name", "Alice");`
* `person.put("address", "17 Princess St");`
* `person.get("name");`
* `person.remove("name");`

Notice, however, that we get an error if we try to get the first name out of the `ArrayList` and store it in a `String` variable:

* `String name = names.get(0);`
* `ERROR: incompatible types: java.lang.Object cannot be converted to java.lang.String`

This is because the `ArrayList` doesn't remember what the types are of its contents unless you tell it to. We can do that by using "generics", a feature that tells this data structure what kinds of objects it can contain:

* `ArrayList<String> names = new ArrayList<>();`
* `HashMap<String, String> = new HashMap<>();`

Dynamic data structures are convenient, but don't use them if you don't need to. If you know your "person" variable needs to contain a name and address, why not just make a class? Static data structures are faster, use less memory, and are often safer at compile-time.

## Text Adventure

Let's add a system to find items in our game. We can use a dynamic data structure, so it will grow as we find more items. First, let's add a field to our `Player` class:

```java
public class Player {
    String name;
    String weapon;
    String location;
    ArrayList<String> items = new ArrayList<>();
    
    ...
}
```

Add a `findItem` method which takes an item name and asks if you want to pick it up:

```java
public class Player {
    ...
    
    public void findItem(String item) {
        System.out.println("You found a " + item + "! Pick it up? [y/n]");
        String answer = Game.nextLine();
        if (answer.equalsIgnoreCase("y")) {
            items.add(item);
            System.out.println("You picked up an item!");
        }
    }
}
```

We can now call this method in the main class:

```java
public class Game {
    ...
    
    public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
        ...
        player.findItem("shield");
        player.findItem("boots");
        player.findItem("belt");
    }
}
```

Just for fun, it would be cool to add a command system, much like IRC or Slack where you can type `/something` and it will be interpreted in a special way. For example, we could type `/exit` to exit the game, and `/inv` to get a list of our inventory. To do this, we need to "wrap" the `Scanner` class' `nextLine` method in our own, so we can short-circuit it when necessary.

First, we'll write our own `nextLine` method:

```java
public class Game {
    ...
    
    public static String nextLine() {
        String line = scanner.nextLine();
        while (line.startsWith("/")) {
            switch (line) {
                case "/inv":
                    for (String item : player.items) {
                        System.out.println(item);
                    }
                    break;
                case "/exit":
                    System.exit(0);
                    break;
                default:
                    System.out.println("Command not found!");
                    break;
            }
            line = scanner.nextLine();
        }
        return line;
    }
}
```

As you can see, it calls the scanner's `nextLine` method, but instead of returning it immediately, it loops to check if the line starts with a `/`. Now change every instance of `scanner.nextLine()` in the `Player` class to `Game.nextLine()` and the command system should now be available.
